---
title: About this ebook
role:
draft: false
---


# About this ebook

## Credits

This documentation ebook is designed and maintained by EDRLab as part of
the development of the Thorium-Reader application.

The main contributors of this documentation are :

-   Gautier Chomel
-   Georges Kerscher
-   Noelia Ruiz Martínez
-   Prashant Verma
-   
## Accessibility

This ebook was tested with NVDA on Firefox on Windows 10. No
accessibility blockers were found.

If you encounter any difficulties you can inform us via the contact form
or by opening an issue on our [support
tracker](https://github.com/edrlab/thorium-reader-doc/issues/new).

The page is in English but you can write in your language by telling us
so we can in your language so that we can mobilize the right people.

Here is the information we need:

-   Operating system and its version
-   Thorium version (it is indicated at the bottom of the library under
    the title About Thorium)
-   Assistive technology used.


## Licensing

Copyright 2019 European Digital Reading Lab. All rights reserved.
Licensed to the Readium Foundation under one or more contributor license
agreements.

The Thorium-reader application is open-source, released under a BSD 3
license. It is based on the open-source Readium Desktop toolkit.

The content of this web site is free and may be reused under the terms
of the the BSD License.

This static site is generated by Hugo and the Hugo Book theme. \[Source
code is public\](https://github.com/edrlab/thorium-reader-doc).

## Who has developed this app

Thorium Reader is currently developed by:

-   Daniel Weck, lead developer.
-   Pierre Leroux, node.js developer.

Several other developers have helped making Thorium what it is today:

-   Simon Le Roux, UI designer.
-   Cyrille Lebeaupin, CEO of noop.fr, senior developer.
-   Jiminy Panoz, creator of Readium CSS.
-   Léo Stéfani, node.js, React developer.
-   Manuel Lagrand, intern, node.js developer.

The project is supervised by Laurent Le Meur, EDRLab CTO.

## Who is financing this app

EDRLab is a non-profit organization. Our budget essentially originates
from our members. EDRLab started in France, but is now counting 60
members from Europe, North America, South America and Asia.

This project would have not seen the light without:

1- The financial implication of our founding members: Editis, Hachette
Livre, Magrigall, Media-Participations, Cercle de la Librarie, Syndicat
national de l\'Edition. They understand that financing open-standards
and open-source is the best way to energize an open and innovative
market for the publishing industry.

2- Financial grants from the following French public organizations:

-   CNL (Centre National du livre)
-   Ministère de la Culture

3- Additional grants from EDRLab members interested by the addition of
specific features:

-   Fênix Editorial, Brazil
-   Canadian Electronic library, Canada
-   MLOL / Horizons Unlimited, Italy
-   Lyrasis, USA
