---
title: "Text to Speech (TTS)"
description: ""
draft: false
weight: 230
toc: false
---

{{< alert info >}}
Text-to-speech functionalities are available only with EPUB and Daisy formats. 
{{< /alert>}}


Text-to-speech is launched using the speaker button in the middle of the toolbar, 
or by using the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>2</kbd>.

* Play and pause can be controlled with the keyboard shortcut 
<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>2</kbd>.

* The playback position can be moved with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>1</kbd> 
and <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>3</kbd> for previous and next respectively.

* A speed control is available when read aloud 
is selected, with a range from x0.5 to x2.

* The current sentence is highlighted in light yellow, and each word spoken is 
underlined in orange.

### Options for TTS
Three options are available in the `Settings / Readaloud` menu:
* Simplified view auto scrolls text with focus by paragraphe.
* Skippability does not display auxiliary contents authored as footnotes, endnotes, pagebreaks and asides. 
* Split text focuses phrase by phrase


{{< alert info >}}
Thorium uses the voices from the computer's operating system, in combination with the language information provided by the book. If you experience problems please check the related FAQ entry [I can't select the adequate voice for read aloud function (TTS)](/docs/400_ressources/430_faq#TTSvoices).
{{< /alert>}}


{{< alert danger >}}

Thorium 2.3 TTS reads page numbers by default which might result in a too verbose earing experience. The `skipability` option in `readaloud` parameter does not affect TTS reading as expected. This is fixed in [2.4 alpha continuous test build](https://github.com/edrlab/thorium-reader/releases) and will be shipped in 2.4 release. 

{{< /alert>}}